Objective-C is a superset of the C language. Like with C++, a well-written C program should be compile-able as Objective-C, as long as it is not using some of the bad practices allowed by C. To avoid conflicts, these keywords begin with the @ character.

Here is the(short) exhaustive list: @class , @interface , @implementation , @public , @private , @protected , @try , @catch , @throw , @finally , @end , @protocol , @selector , @synchronized , @encode , @defs .

Objective-C 2.0 has added @optional , @required, @property, @dynamic , @synthesize . 

The words super and self, could also be understood as keywords, but self is in fact a hidden parameter to each method, and super an instruction asking the compiler to use self differently.

# 1.1 New types and values

1. BOOL

   In C++, the boolean type is bool. In Objective-C, it is BOOL, which can be set to YES or NO.

2. Every object is of type id.
3. Nil , nil, NULL

   nil is the equivalent of  NULL for a pointer to an object.  nil and NULL should not be interchangeable.

   Nil is the equivalent of  nil for a class pointer. In Objective-C, a class is an object (it is the instance of a meta-class).

4. The SEL  type can store selectors  values, which are method identifiers unrelated to any class instance object. These values can be computed by a call to @selector.
5. @encode. A call to @encode(a  type )  returns a C string (char* ) representing the type.


# 1.2 Organization of source code

 Objective-C uses .h  files for headers, and .m  files for the code; .mm files are used for Objective-C++. 

 Objective-C introduces the #import  directive to replace #include, avoiding multiple inclusions.

# 1.3 Differencing functions and methods

Objective-C is not a language with “function calls using square brackets”. This would be alegitimate thought when observing code like that :

> [objectdoSomething];

instead of

> object.doSomething();

This difference is not only in the syntax, but also the meaning. This is not a method call, this is sending a message.
