Objective-C uses a strict object model, unlike C++  which has many discrepancies against the ideal object model.

Every new class should be a descendant of the root class. In Cocoa, that class is NSObject.  Every object should be of type NSObject , and every pointer to an object could be declared as NSObject* . In fact, one can use the type id  instead. 

# 2.1 Class declaration

## Attributes and methods

In Objective-C, attributes are called instance data , and member functions are called methods .

In C++ , attributes and methods are declared together inside the braces of the class. 

In Objective-C, attributes and methods cannot be mixed. The attributes are declared in braces, the methods follow. Their implementation lies in an @implementation block.

Instance methods are prefixed by the minus symbol “-”, and class methods by the plussymbol “+”.

## Public, private, protected

In C++, attributes and methods can belong to a public, protected or private scope. The default mode is private.

In Objective-C, only the instance data can be public, protected or private, and the default visibility is protected. **Methods can only be public**. However, it is possible to mimic the private mode, by implementing some methods in the @implementation, without declaring them in the @interface, or using the notion of class category.

## Static attributes

It’s not possible in Objective-C to declare a class data attribute (static  as in C++ ). However, it is possible to do the same thing in a different way: use a global variable in the implementation file (optionally with the static C keyword to limit the scope).

# 2.2 Methods

**C++  and Objective-C use opposite ways to differentiate function prototypes. The first is based on parameters types, while the second is based on parameter labels.**

In Objective-C, all functions are C functions: they cannot be *overloaded* (unless the compiler can be told to use C99; like gcc does).

A selector is not, strictly speaking, a pointer to a function; its real underlying type is a C string, registered by the run-time as a method identifier. When a class is loaded, its methods are automatically registered in a table, so that @selector() can work as expected.

**Objective-C does not allow a default value to be specified for the parameters of functionsor methods.**

Objective-C allows the use of methods with a variable number of arguments. Like in C, the syntax relies on using “... ” as the last argument.

Anonymous argumentsis not possible in Objective-C.

In C++ , a few modifiers can be added to the prototype of a function. None of them exist in Objective-C. Here is the list:

- const : a method cannot be set const. As a consequence, the mutable keyword cannot exist;
- static : making the difference between an instance method and a class method isdone through the use of “-” or “+” in front of the prototype;
- virtual : **Objective-C methods are virtual**, so the keyword is useless. **Pure  virtual methods are implemented with a formal protocol**;
- friend : there is no “friend” notion in Objective-C;
- throw : in C++ , one can restrict a method to transmit some exceptions only. This is not possible in Objective-C.

# 2.3 Messages and transmission

By default, it is legal to send a message (call a method) to nil

In C++ , code cannot be compiled if a method is called on an object that does not implement it.

In Objective-C, there’s a difference: one can always send a message to an object. If it can’tbe handled at run-time, it will be ignored (and raise an exception); moreover, instead of ignoring it, it can forward the message to another object.

There is no explicit downcasting  operator in Objective-C, the traditionnal cast syntax of the C language can be used.

 