<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [3.1 Virtuality](#31-virtuality)
- [3.2 Protocols](#32-protocols)
- [3.3 Class categories](#33-class-categories)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

In C++ , a class can be derived from one or several other classes, using public, protected or private mode. In the methods, one can reference a superclass using the scope resolution operator :: (Bar::, Wiz::).
**In Objective-C, one can derive from one class only, using public mode**. A method can reference the superclass with the (false) keyword super, like in Java.  **Objective-C does not implement multiple inheritance**, but brings other concepts, the protocols and the categories.

# 3.1 Virtuality

In Objective-C, all methods are virtual. Virtual inheritance is not relevant in Objective-C, since inheritance cannot be multiple and has none of the associated problems.

# 3.2 Protocols

Java and C#  fix the lack of multiple inheritance by the notion of interface . In Objective-C, the same notion is used, and is called a protocol . In C++ , this would be an abstract class. A protocol is not a real class: it can only declare methods and cannot hold any data. By the way, **template does not exist in Objective-C**.

# 3.3 Class categories

Creating categories  for a class is a way to split its implementation into several parts. Each category is a part of the class. A class can use an arbitrary number of categories, but none can add instance data.