<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [5.1 Program Structure and Execution](#51-program-structure-and-execution)
- [5.2 Conditional Execution](#52-conditional-execution)
- [5.3 Loops and Iteration](#53-loops-and-iteration)
- [5.4 Exceptions](#54-exceptions)
  - [Defining New Exceptions](#defining-new-exceptions)
- [5.5 Context Managers and the `with` Statement](#55-context-managers-and-the-with-statement)
- [5.6 Assertions and `__debug__`](#56-assertions-and-__debug__)
- [导航](#%E5%AF%BC%E8%88%AA)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# 5.1 Program Structure and Execution

There are no “special” statements, and every statement can be placed anywhere in a program. 

```python
if debug:
    def square(x):
        if not isinstance(x,float):
            raise TypeError("Expected a float")
        return x * x
else:
    def square(x):
        return x * x
```

When loading source files, **the interpreter always executes every statement in order until there are no more statements to execute**. This execution model applies both to files you simply run as the main program and to library files that are loaded via import.

# 5.2 Conditional Execution

The general format of a conditional statement:

```python
if expression:
    statements
elif expression:
    statements
elif expression:
    statements
else:
    statements
```

If no action is to be taken, you can omit both the `else` and `elif` clauses of a conditional. Use the `pass` statement if no statements exist for a particular clause:

```python
if expression:
    pass # Do nothing
else:
    statements
```

# 5.3 Loops and Iteration

loops using `for` and `while` statemeents:

```python
while expression:
    statements

for i is s: # works with any object that supports iteration, like list, tuple, string and any object that implements the iterator protocol 
    statements
```

In the statement `for i in s`, the variable `i` is known as the iteration variable. On each iteration of the loop, it receives a new value from `s`.
**The scope of the iteration variable is not private to the for statement**. If a previously defined variable has the same name, that value will be overwritten. Moreover, the iteration variable retains the last value after the loop has completed.

unpack iteration values into individual variables:

```python
for x, y, z in s:
    statements
```

keep trask of a numberical index in addition to the data values:

```python
for i,x in enumerate(s):
    statements
```

`enumerate(s)` creates an iterator that simply returns a sequence of tuples `(0, s[0])`, `(1, s[1])`, `(2, s[2])`, and so on.

iterating in parallel over two or more sequnces with `zip()` function:

```python
for x, y in zip(s, t):
    statements
```

`zip(s,t)` combines sequences `s` and `t` into a sequence of tuples `(s[0],t[0])`, `(s[1],t[1])`, `(s[2], t[2])`, and so forth, stopping with the shortest of the sequences `s` and `t` should they be of unequal length.
One caution with `zip()` is that in Python 2, it fully consumes both s and t, creating a list of tuples. `itertools.izip()` generate the zipped valus one at a time rather than creating a large list of tuples.

To break out of a loop, use the `break` statement:

```python
for line in open("foo.txt"):
    stripped = line.strip()
    if not stripped:
        break # A blank line, stop reading
    # process the stripped line
```

To jump to the next iteration of a loop (skipping the remainder of the loop body), use the `continue` statement.

```python
for line in open("foo.txt"):
    stripped = line.strip()
    if not stripped:
        continue # Skip the blank line
    # process the stripped line
```

If it’s necessary to break out of a deeply nested loop structure, you can use an exception.
Python doesn’t provide a `goto` statement.

```python
found_separator = False
for line in open("foo.txt"):
    stripped = line.strip()
    if not stripped:
        found_separator = True
        break
    # process the stripped line
if not found_separator:
    raise RuntimeError("Missing section separator")
```

The `else` clause of a loop executes only if the loop runs to completion.
If the loop is terminated early using the break statement, the else clause is skipped.


# 5.4 Exceptions

The general format of the raise statement is `raise Exception([value])`, where `Exception` is the exception type and `value` is an optional value giving specific details about the exception. 

```python
raise RuntimeError("Unrecoverable Error")
```

**If the raise statement is used by itself, the last exception generated is raised again** (although this works only while handling a previously raised exception).

```python
try:
    do something
except IOError as e:
    # Handle I/O error
except TypeError as e:
    # Handle Type error
except NameError as e:
    # Handle Name error
```

A single handler can catch multiple exception types like this:
```python
try:
    do something
except (IOError, TypeError, NameError) as e:
    # Handle I/O, Type, or Name errors
```

To ignore an exception, use the `pass` statement as follows:
```python
try:
    do something
except IOError:
    pass # Do nothing (oh well).
```

The `finally` statement defines a cleanup action for code contained in a `try` block.

```python
f = open('foo','r')
try:
    # Do some stuff
finally:
    f.close()
    # File closed regardless of what happened
```

## Defining New Exceptions

To create a new exception, create a new class definition that inherits from `Exception`:

```python
class NetworkError(Exception): pass
```

When raising an exception, the optional values supplied with the raise statement are used as the arguments to the exception’s class constructor. 

```python
class DeviceError(Exception):
    def __init__(self,errno,msg):
        self.args = (errno, msg)
        self.errno = errno
        self.errmsg = msg

# Raises an exception (multiple arguments)
raise DeviceError(1, 'Not Responding')
```

# 5.5 Context Managers and the `with` Statement

The with statement allows a series of statements to execute inside a runtime context jthat is controlled by an object that serves as a context manager. 

```python
with open("debuglog","a") as f:
    f.write("Debugging\n")
    statements
    f.write("Done\n")

import threading
lock = threading.Lock()
with lock:
    # Critical section
    statements
    # End critical section
```

When the `with obj` statement executes, it executes the method `obj.__enter__()` to signal that a new context is being entered.When control flow leaves the context, the method `obj.__exit__(type,value,traceback)` executes.
The `__exit__()` method returns `True` or `False` to indicate whether the raised exception was handled or not (if False is returned, any exceptions raised are propagated out of the context).

The with statement only works with objects that support the context management protocol (the `__enter__()` and `__exit__()` methods). User-defined classes can implement these methods to define their own customized context-management. 

```python
class ListTransaction(object):
    def __init__(self,thelist):
        self.thelist = thelist
    
    def __enter__(self):
        self.workingcopy = list(self.thelist)
        return self.workingcopy

    def __exit__(self,type,value,tb):
        if type is None:
            self.thelist[:] = self.workingcopy
        return False
```

The contextlib module allows custom context managers to be more easily implemented by placing a wrapper around a generator function. 

```python
from contextlib import contextmanager
@contextmanager
def ListTransaction(thelist):
    workingcopy = list(thelist)
    yield workingcopy
    # Modify the original list only if no errors
    thelist[:] = workingcopy
```


# 5.6 Assertions and `__debug__`

The `assert` statement can introduce debugging code into a program.

```python
assert test [, msg]
```

If test evaluates to `False`, `assert` raises an `AssertionError` exception with the optional message msg supplied to the assert statement.

The assert statement should not be used for code that must be executed to make the program correct because it won’t be executed if Python is run in optimized mode (specified with the `-O` option to the interpreter).
`assert` statements are used to check things that should always be true; if one is violated, it represents a bug in the program, not an error by the user.

Python provides the built-in read-only variable `__debug__`, which is set to `True` unless the interpreter is running in optimized mode (specified with the `-O` option).

If Python is running in its normal mode, the statements under the if `__debug__` statement are just inlined into the program without the if statement itself. In optimized mode, the if `__debug__` statement and all associated statements are completely removed from the program.


# 导航

[目录](README.md)

上一章：[4、运算符与表达式](4、运算符与表达式.md)

下一章：[6、函数与函数式编程](6、函数与函数式编程.md)
