<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [8.1 Modules and the `import` Statement](#81-modules-and-the-import-statement)
- [8.2 Importing Selected Symbols from a Module](#82-importing-selected-symbols-from-a-module)
- [8.3 Execution as the Main Program](#83-execution-as-the-main-program)
- [8.4 The Module Search Path](#84-the-module-search-path)
- [8.5 Module Loading and Compilation](#85-module-loading-and-compilation)
- [8.6 Module Reloading and Unloading](#86-module-reloading-and-unloading)
- [8.7 Packages](#87-packages)
- [8.8 Distributing Python Programs and Libraries](#88-distributing-python-programs-and-libraries)
- [8.9 Install Third-Party Libraries](#89-install-third-party-libraries)
- [导航](#%E5%AF%BC%E8%88%AA)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# 8.1 Modules and the `import` Statement

Any Python source file can be used as a module. `import` does 3 things:

1. It creates a new namespace that serves as a container for all the objects defined in the corresponding source file.This is the namespace accessed when functions and methods defined within the module use the `global` statement.
2. It executes the code contained in the module within the newly created namespace.
3. It creates a name within the caller that refers to the module namespace.

**It is important to emphasize that import executes all of the statements in the loaded source file.**

To import multiple modules:

```python
import socket, os, re
```

The name used to refer to a module can be changed using the `as` qualifier:

```python
import socket as net
net.gethostname()
```

Modules are first class objects in Python.This means that they can be assigned to variables, placed in data structures such as a list, and passed around in a program as a data.

The `import` statement can appear at any point in a program. However, the code in each module is loaded and executed only once. Subsequent `import` statements simply bind the module name to the module object already created by the previous import. You can find a dictionary containning all currently loaded modules in the variable `sys.modules`.


# 8.2 Importing Selected Symbols from a Module

The from statement is used to load specific definitions within a module into the current namespace.

```python
from spam import foo # Imports spam and puts 'foo' in current namespace
foo() # Calls spam.foo()
spam.foo() # NameError: spam
```

If you have a very long list of names to import, the names can be enclosed in parentheses.

```python
from spam import (foo,
                    bar,
                    Spam)
```

The asterisk (*) wildcard character can also be used to load all the definitions in a module, except those that start with an underscore.

```python
from spam import *
```

Modules can more precisely control the set of names imported by `from module import *` by defining the list `__all__`. 

```python
# module: spam.py
__all__ = [ 'bar', 'Spam' ] # Names I will export with from spam import *
```

Importing definitions with the `form` form of import dose NOT change their scoping rules.

```python
from spam import bar
def foo():
    print("I'm a different foo")
bar()   # When bar calls foo(), it calls spam.foo(), not
        # the definition of foo() above
```

Another confusion with the `from` form of import concerns of behavior of global variables.

```python
from spam import a, foo # Import a global variable
a = 42 # Modify the variable
foo() # Prints "I'm foo and a is 37"
print(a) # Prints "42"
```


# 8.3 Execution as the Main Program

Code might execute as the main program or script: `python spam.py`.

Each module defines a variable, `__name__`, that contains the module name. The top-level module of the interpreter is named `__main__`. Programs specified on the command line or entered interactively run inside the `__main__` module. Sometimes a program may alter its behavior, depending on whether it has been imported as a module or is running in `__main__`.

```python
# Check if running as a program
if __name__ == '__main__':
    # Yes
    statements
else:
    # No, I must have been imported as a module
    statements
```


# 8.4 The Module Search Path

When loading modules, the interpreter searches the list of directories in `sys.path`. 

The first entry in `sys.path` is typically an empty string '', which refers to the current working directory. Other entries in `sys.path` may consist of directory names, `.zip` archive files, and `.egg` files.The order in which entries are listed in sys.path determines the search order used when modules are loaded.To add new entries to the search path, simply add them to this list.

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("mymodules.zip")
import foo, bar
```

`.egg` files are packages created by the `setuptools` library. An `.egg` file is actually just a `.zip` file with some extra metadata.

There are some restrictions about zip file:

1. it only imports `.py`, `.pyc`, `.pyw` and `.pyo` files from archive, not including shared libraries and extension modules written in C.
2. Python will not create .pyc and .pyo files when .py files are loaded from an archive.Thus, it is important to make sure these files are created in advance and placed in the archive in order to avoid poor performance when loading modules.


# 8.5 Module Loading and Compilation

Modules loaded with import really fall into four general categories:

1. Code written in Python (.py files)
2. C or C++ extensions that have been compiled into shared libraries or DLLs
3. Packages containing a collection of modules
4. Built-in modules written in C and linked into the Python interpreter

When looking for a module (for example, `foo`), the interpreter searches each of the directories in `sys.path` for the following files (listed in search order):

1. A directory, `foo`, defining a package
2. `foo.pyd`, `foo.so`, `foomodule.so`, or `foomodule.dll` (compiled extensions)
3. `foo.pyo` (only if the `-O` or `-OO` option has been used)
4. `foo.pyc`
5. `foo.py` (on Windows, Python also checks for `.pyw` files.)

For `.py` files, when a module is first imported, it’s compiled into bytecode and written back to disk as a `.pyc` file. On subsequent imports, the interpreter loads this precompiled bytecode unless the modification date of the `.py` file is more recent (in which case, the `.pyc` file is regenerated).

`.pyo` files are used in conjunction with the interpreter’s -O option.These files contain bytecode stripped of line numbers, assertions, and other debugging information.

If `.pyc` and `.pyo` files are available, it is not necessary for a corresponding `.py` file to exist. Also, be aware that `.pyc` files tend to be version-specific.


# 8.6 Module Reloading and Unloading

Python provides no real support for reloading or unloading of previously imported modules. Although you can remove a module from `sys.modules`, this does not generally unload a module from memory. The references to the modules object may still exist in other program components that used `import` to load that module.

The fact that module references exist in many places makes it generally impractical to reload a module after making changes to its implementation.

Finally, it should be noted that C/C++ extensions to Python cannot be safely unloaded or reloaded in any way. The only recource is to restart the Python interpreter process.


# 8.7 Packages

Packages allow a collection of modules to be grouped under a common package name. This technique helps resolve namespace conflicts between module names used in different applications. package is defined by creating a directory with the same name as the package and creating the file `__init__.py` in that directory.

```
Graphics/
    __init__.py
    Primitive/
        __init__.py
        lines.py
        fill.py
        text.py
        ...
    Graph2d/
        __init__.py
        plot2d.py
        ...
    Graph3d/
        __init__.py
        plot3d.py
        ...
    Formats/
        __init__.py
        gif.py
```

`import Graphics.Primitive.fill` is used to load modules from a package.

Whenever any part of a package is first imported, the code in the file `__init__.py` is executed.

`from Graphics.Primitive import *` just imports all the names that are defined in the `__init__.py` file in the `Primitive` directory. This behavior can be modified by defining a list, `__all__`, that contains all the module names associated with the package.

```python
# Graphics/Primitive/__init__.py
__all__ = ["lines","text","fill"]
```

submodules that want to import other submodules within the same package.

```python
# fill.py
from . import lines
```

Relative imports can also be used to load submodules contained in different directories of the same package.

```python
# plot2d.py
from ..Primitives import lines
```

Relative imports can only be specified using the `from module import symbol` form of the `import` statement.Thus, statements such as import `..Primitives.lines` or `import .lines` are a syntax error. Also, relative imports can only be used with a package.

Importing a package name alone doesn’t import all the submodules contained in the package.

```python
import Graphics
Graphics.Primitive.fill.floodfill(img,x,y,color) # Fails!
```

However, because the import Graphics statement executes the `__init__.py` file in the Graphics directory, relative imports can be used to load all the submodules automatically, as follows:
```
# Graphics/__init__.py
from . import Primitive, Graph2d, Graph3d

# Graphics/Primitive/__init__.py
from . import lines, fill, text, ...
```

Finally, when Python imports a package, it defines a special variable, `__path__`, which contains a list of directories that are searched when looking for package submodules. If necessary, a package can supply additional directories to the `__path__` list to alter the search path used for finding submodules.

# 8.8 Distributing Python Programs and Libraries

To distribute Python programs to others, you should use the `distutils` module. 

```
spam/
    README.txt
    Documentation.txt
    libspam.py # A single library module
    spampkg/ # A package of support modules
        __init__.py
        foo.py
        bar.py
    runspam.py # A script to run as: python runspam.py
```

After you have organized your code, create a file `setup.py` in the top most directory.

```python
# setup.py
from distutils.core import setup
setup(name = "spam",
    version = "1.0",
    py_modules = ['libspam'],
    packages = ['spampkg'],
    scripts = ['runspam.py'],
    )
```

Then, 

```shell
python setup.py sdist
```

This creates a archive file such as `spam-1.0.tar.gz` in the directory `spam/dist`. This is the file you would give to others to install your software.

```shell
unzip spam-1.0.zip
cd spam-1.0
python setup.py install
```


# 8.9 Install Third-Party Libraries

The definitive resource for locating third-party libraries and extensions to Python is the `Python Package Index (PyPI)`.

`python setup.py install --user` to have the module installed in a per-user library directory.This installs the package in a per-user directory such as "/Users/beazley/.local/lib/python2.6/site-packages" on UNIX.

If you have installed `setuptools`, a script `easy_install` is available to install packages. Simply type `easy_install pkgname` to install a specific package.

If you would like to add your own software to PyPI, simply type `python setup.py register`.



# 导航

[目录](README.md)

上一章：[7、类与面向对象编程](7、类与面向对象编程.md)

下一章：[9、输入与输出](9、输入与输出.md)
